WHAT IS PYTHON?

Python is a widely used high-level programming language for general-purpose programming, created by Guido van Rossum and first released in 1991. An interpreted language, Python has a design philosophy that emphasizes code readability (notably using whitespace indentation to delimit code blocks rather than curly brackets or keywords), and a syntax that allows programmers to express concepts in fewer lines of code than might be used in languages such as C++ or Java.[25][26] It provides constructs that enable clear programming on both small and large scales.[27]
Python features a dynamic type system and automatic memory management. It supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, imperative, functional and procedural, and has a large and comprehensive standard library.[28]
Python interpreters are available for many operating systems. CPython, the reference implementation of Python, is open source software[29] and has a community-based development model, as do nearly all of its variant implementations. CPython is managed by the non-profit Python Software Foundation.

FEATURES OF PHYTHON?
Some of Python's notable features:

    Uses an elegant syntax, making the programs you write easier to read.
    Is an easy-to-use language that makes it simple to get your program working. This makes Python ideal for prototype development and other ad-hoc programming tasks, without compromising maintainability.
    Comes with a large standard library that supports many common programming tasks such as connecting to web servers, searching text with regular expressions, reading and modifying files.
    Python's interactive mode makes it easy to test short snippets of code. There's also a bundled development environment called IDLE.
    Is easily extended by adding new modules implemented in a compiled language such as C or C++.
    Can also be embedded into an application to provide a programmable interface.
    Runs anywhere, including Mac OS X, Windows, Linux, and Unix.
    Is free software in two senses. It doesn't cost anything to download or use Python, or to include it in your application. Python can also be freely modified and re-distributed, because while the language is copyrighted it's available under an open source license. 
    
    
    Some programming-language features of Python are:

    A variety of basic data types are available: numbers (floating point, complex, and unlimited-length long integers), strings (both ASCII and Unicode), lists, and dictionaries.
    Python supports object-oriented programming with classes and multiple inheritance.
    Code can be grouped into modules and packages.
    The language supports raising and catching exceptions, resulting in cleaner error handling.
    Data types are strongly and dynamically typed. Mixing incompatible types (e.g. attempting to add a string and a number) causes an exception to be raised, so errors are caught sooner.
    Python contains advanced programming features such as generators and list comprehensions.
    Python's automatic memory management frees you from having to manually allocate and free memory in your code. 
    
    ADVANTAGES:
    There are many benefits of learning Python, especially as your first language, which we will discuss. It is a language that is remarkably easy to learn, and it can be used as a stepping stone into other programming languages and frameworks. ... 2) Most automation, data mining, and big data platforms rely on Python.
